now we're ready to get going an idling
engine burns fuel and gets zero miles
per gallon so keep in mind that no
idling for engine warm-up is needed
except for extreme weather conditions
cold ambient protection or CA P is an
engine feature for cold weather warmup
will provide more on that in the section
on electronics MaxxForce engines are
built for performance reliability
durability and fuel efficiency a minor
improvement in mileage can save
thousands of dollars a year a five
percent improvement for an over-the-road
truck saves an estimated three thousand
dollars a year these savings can also be
substantial for trucks that run as
little as twenty five thousand miles a
year a good driver knows how to maximize
fuel economy and get the most out of an
engine
there is a 30% difference in fuel
economy between the best and worst
drivers and identically SPECT Trucks
drivers can control their fuel economy
by controlling their engines rpm to most
efficiently operate a MaxxForce engine
in Top Gear drivers should maintain
their rpms between 1000 and 1500
cruising and top gear on level ground
the optimal rpm range for the MaxxForce
13 or 15 is 1325 to 1375 the MaxxForce
11 is slightly higher at 1350 to 1450
rpm based on load and terrain more rpms
may be needed to achieve desired
performance get it top gear as quickly
as possible use progressive shifting to
keep the engine rpm in the optimal range
for fuel economy the goal is to use only
enough rpms to get your engine into the
next gear while maintaining vehicle
acceleration by staying in the
recommended operating range you'll be
able to accelerate the truck more
efficiently since the new MaxxForce
engine is quiet you will have to pay
attention to your tachometer or the
upshift indicator that is covered later
in this program smart and safe driving
habits including anticipating braking
and smooth acceleration driving and top
gear as much as possible using cruise
control and controlling your speed will
have a significant impact on fuel
mileage if traffic and safety conditions
permit when approaching hills don't let
up on the accelerator the trucks
computer will begin feeding fuel to the
engine as soon as appropriate helping
you maintain speed faster than a driver
can react and press the accelerator
remember you need to idle for two to
three minutes to cool down engines that
have reached operating temperature one
of the biggest wastes of fuel is
unnecessary idling studies show the
average over the road truck spends up to
2,000 hours per year idling burning
almost a gallon of fuel per hour when
you get out of the truck shut it off
the best drivers keep these things in
mind
reduce idle time use progressive
shifting and up shift between 1000 and
1500 rpms utilizing top gear as much as
possible can save you 3 to 4 percent in
fuel economy watch your speed and time
span and cruise control helps to save
fuel employing these techniques will
optimize the performance and fuel
economy of your MaxxForce engine
you